Chapter 1
1) EWB is a global movement and there are many EWB organisations around the world. They are
differently but they are connecting. They have the same goal which is to fix problems of the poor
countries without expensive technologies. 1
2) EWB Challenge is program which is designed for first year university student. It provides a chance
for students to learn about design, communication and teamwork in real projects which come from
the problems in some poor countries such as India, Nepal, Cambodia, rural Australia, Vietnam, Timor
Leste and so on. 2
3) In this year, EWB challenge looks at the problems in east coast of the island Espiritu Santo and ten
communities working with live &amp; Learn Vanuatu. In these ten design areas, our team deals with the
first area which is about water supply and choose the design project 1.3 – purification of water from
open sources. By EWB Challenge information, we found that there are four water sources for the
people in that island such as rainwater, seawater, spring and river. Our research aims to fix the
problems that comes from these resources like salt, heavy metals, and so on by using a system
which should be basic, cheap and effective.
Chapter 2
Performance: This SSF design has 3-4 layer, 1: dirty water, 2: clean sand, 3: gravel, 4: result.
This system removes almost the bad element inside the water, however, it still need to boil
and remove salt. It lets water fill through 2 layer (sand and gravel) and the elements inside
water will be removed by these 2 layer. This system was used up to 150 years (Blackburn
2005). (How is the design to function? What need is it filling? What does it have to do? Is it
reliable?)
2. Serviceability: By only using the sand and gravel, it is very easy for maintenance or repair. (Is
maintenance or repair a concern? If so, can it be easily performed?)
3. Economic: East Santo is an island, so the materials which are used for the SSF such as sand
and gravel are free. The situation here is just how to move them. (Is the production and/or
use costs considered?)
4. Environmental: because it only uses sand and gravel as the main material, so it does not
have any bad impact to environment. (Does this have positive or negative impact to the
environment? Are there any environmental effects due to the production, use or end-of-use
of the design? Are appropriate materials selected?)
5. Health and safety: It can extrude “83+% total heterotrophic bacterial populations, 100% of
Giardia cysts, 99.98% of Cryptosporidium oocysts, and 50–90% of organic and inorganic
toxicants when administered in concentrations varying from 10– )100= environmental
pollution levels”.(Palmateer 1999). (Have appropriate codes and standards been applied to
